markdown<br>Title: My son was set up with cocaine at a Thai airport<br>URL: dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14738781/My-son-called-idiot-cocaine-wallet-Thai-airport-SET-heres-warning-Brit-holidaymakers.html<br><br>The mother of a man held at a Thai airport after a packet of cocaine was found in his passport has warned that it can 'happen to anyone' as she claims he was 'set up'. Michelle Swain, 57, says her family went through hell when they received a call from her son saying he had arrived at Phuket island for his much-anticipated holiday only to be arrested at immigration. Jamie Louis Swain, then 29, from Stevenage, landed at Phuket International Airport with his brother in May last year but was pulled aside when an immigration officer noticed a small plastic bag with white powder while flicking through his passport to find an empty page to place the visa stamp. Officers said that Swain reacted with surprise, before he started swearing and shaking, prompting authorities to conduct further inspections and scan his luggage. He was then arrested at the airport, where police tested the substance found in his passport and confirmed it was 0.42 grams of cocaine. He was said to be facing up to 20 years in jail under Thailand's Narcotics Act, but after a court hearing in July was deported back to the UK after being ordered to pay a fine of 50,000 baht (£1,137). Jamie Swain from Stevenage landed at Phuket International Airport in May last year but was pulled aside when an immigration officer noticed a small plastic bag with white powder while flicking through his passport. Speaking to MailOnline, his mother has detailed the traumatic incident, alleging that it was a 'set up'. Ms Swain said: 'He went there with his brother, got through Heathrow, Dubai, and got to Thailand. His brother got through with his passport and then Jamie gave his passport and they said a bag fell out his passport. People say it's because I'm his mum I don't believe it, but to get through two airports and the fact it's happened to other people, I just feel that it was a set up.' I still think [it was set up], I can't help it, because if that's the case then obviously Heathrow and Dubai airports are not doing their job. He was in a holding cell for around two days before being let out on bail. Ms Swain flew out to Phuket on the same night he was detained, and says the 'awful' experience had her worried he would be jailed in a foreign jail. Jamie Swain shared that his time in custody was grim, stating he saw the sea from his cell and had no food or water during his initial detention. After a lengthy process, he was eventually fined and deported, but not before spending time in Bangkok prison. The mother emphasizes the dangers for young travelers, cautioning others about the risks of such situations in foreign countries.